For now, I would like to keep everything in one project to ease implementation, but in the future I may break each piece out into a separate library.

h2. Release 0.2.*

This release contains code to help with stateful session management and authentication and authorization.

h2. Planned features for version 1.0.0

h3. The reference application

The reference application is currently easiest to get running with MySQL. I plan to change this to use mstate:http://github.com/brentonashworth/mstate by default so that it will be easier for others to test drive and evaluate.

h3. Form layout, validation and error reporting

Working on making it easy to layout and build forms without having to write HTML. There are examples of this in all of the forms in the reference application. The current code needs a lot of work.

h3. Basic authentication support

Add support for basic authentication. There is an example of this in the development area of the project and working in the reference application. This needs to be generalized so that it does not depend on one way of storing user data.

h3. Tables which may be filtered, sorted and paged

The reference project has some working examples. Each of the tables in the application may be filtered and sorted on multiple columns. More features will be added in the future and the code will be improved over time.

h3. User management

Every application that I create needs some kind of user management GUI. The goal here is to package this up into a library that I can include and configure and never have to worry about again. This is partially implemented.

h3. CSS Builder

Working with CSS on a large project always gets out of control. I want to be able to write my CSS as Clojure code like "hiccup":http://github.com/weavejester/hiccup does for html. This currently does not exist.

